Cool so to review Part 3,
we talked about enums first.
So here's an example of making
a custom enum called purple, so
this is a custom color.
We talked about how you need to have
this sort of namespace prefix before
your enums.
Which is true for almost all enums,
except for results in option,
which are baked into the standard library.
Talks about how to do pattern matching.
So I could say match on
a particular color value.
And then I could enumerate all
the different possibilities.
Or if I wanted to,
I could leave some of them off, but
then I wouldn't be able to
use it as an expression.
Whenever I'm using it as an expression
because it needs to be able to know,
what to assign that value 2, I do have to
enumerate all the different possibilities.
And if I don't wanna enumerate all of
them, I can just put an underscore at
the end, and then it'll fall
back into that default case.
But here I'm pattern
matching on Color::Custom.
And if it happens to be a custom variant,
then I am extracting and
using de structuring syntax.
To pull out this tuple of r, g and b, and
then I can just use those inside my branch
here, like I would in any
normal conditional expression.
We'll start about methods, so
here's a how I could call color dot rgb,
and method style,
where things are now changeable,
it's going to be using that
self inside the ample.
Or I could use it in traditional style
where I just use :::rgb, which is
basically just saying, I want to make use
of that input namespace for this method.
Finally we talked about type parameters.
So here's an example of using option.
So in this case I'm
using option sharp but,
because option is defined with a T type
parameter or a type parameter named T.
It's possible for me to put any type that
I want inside of those angle brackets and
have it still work.
>> Might have missed this for
matching multiple times on a variant.
How does it decide which one, to pattern
match, like, any shows in an example.
>> So like if we had green in here
multiple times or something like that,
okay, well,
I guess I can give a thorough answer.
So, if I were to put green
in here multiple times,
I would get a compiler error, saying that,
the second pattern is unreachable.
It might actually just be a warning but
certainly, if I had green in
here multiple times, only the first
one would actually get matched.
Any ones below that would not get matched,
because it goes through and
tries to match each of these in order.
But, something that can happen and this is
a little bit advanced for this course is,
in some cases, you can do stuff like,
:::custom, and
then rather than just saying red here,
I could say like.
Red;0, meaning I only want you to
match this branch if red is 0, and
if red is specifically 0, then I want to
run this logic and then de structure,
green and blue as normal.
And then in that case,
I could have another ::custom variant,
below this that had like red, green and
blue, defined like this, in which case,
it would be all the variants
where red is not 0.
So, those are basically all the different
scenarios you could have where,
duplication either would or
wouldn't make sense.
>> Is it possible to set
default values for those,
like saying like red equals 0 or
red equals to 255 or something like that?
>> Is it possible to set
default values for this.
So when you're pattern matching,
this is really about asking the question
of like what's actually in there.
So, a default value wouldn't really work
in the sense that it's not really possible
for it to be missing.
If you do have custom then like, red,
green and blue have to be there.
And if you have yellow or green, there
is no such thing as red, green and blue.
So if you wanted to, I guess you could
define like default values in these
branches, but yeah,
this one it wouldn't really do anything.
>> I believe you said,
there's no prototyping in Rust, correct?
>> Yeah, so Rust does not have,
like prototypes in the sense that like
JavaScript does also doesn't
have classes or inheritance.
>> So if you were to ever define an enum,
you made a variable that
uses a node as a check.
You wouldn't be able to add extra
functionality like a custom method,
after you've already initiated it,
have that available.
>> Yeah, so question is like once you make
an enum, you define an info on it or for
structure that matter.
There's no way to add additional
methods on to it after the fact.
There actually is, which that's
basically what you use traits for.
It doesn't do it with inheritance,
but there is,
a way to do that, [LAUGH] essentially.